---
title: Gzip Script
sub: web performance low-hanging fruit
layout: post

---

# Gzip Script

A LOW HANGING FRUIT of web performance,
**Gzipping**  dramatically shrinks your HTML, CSS & Javascript. 
It is *very* easy[^1], just remember one thing, Don't write
the following in your command line:

{% highlight bash %}
gzip index.html
{% endhighlight %}

Gzip **never** keeps your original file. To see
what gzip outputs, do: 

{% highlight bash %}
gzip -c index.html
{% endhighlight %}

That gibberish was meant to be `index.html.gz`. If
a browser supports gzip, this file will be sent. 
Otherwise the original `index.html` is sent.

{% highlight bash %}
gzip -c index.html > index.html.gz
{% endhighlight %}

The `>` sign makes a new file[^2] `index.html.gz` with
the output. Now let's automate it by writing 
a bash script that finds a list of eligible files[^3]
and generates gzipped versions.

## Automation

{% highlight bash %}
#!/bin/bash
for i in `find /HEY! -name '*.[chj]*'`
do gzip -c $i > $i.gz
done
{% endhighlight %}

Replace `/HEY!` with the path to your final 
web site files.

Bash scripts can be executed anywhere. For me, 
I append it to [Jekyll-hook][jh]'s 
`build.sh` bash script as the last thing to execute on my website.

## One more thing...

You have to turn on `gzip` for the server software you 
use[^4]. Otherwise only the original files will be served.
But hey you've tackled the hardest part. Server config is just
one search away.

[^1]: Easy for those concerned about web performance.
[^2]: Overwrites file if it already exists.
[^3]: The Regex pattern `*.[chj]*` will match any file
    with `.css`, `.html` or `.js` as extension. 
    Get it? `c`, `h`, `j`.

[^4]: For Nginx, 
    [add this](http://wiki.nginx.org/HttpGzipStaticModule) to `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`



[jh]: https://github.com/developmentseed/jekyll-hook